Chapter 26 Behavioral
Most Difficult Interaction
Tell me about the most difficult interaction you’ve had at work.
Things to Consider
What to aim for: Remember that when picking a difficult interaction, this is the real world. The point of this question is to evaluate your problem solving skills, but also to evaluate you as a person. Pick something that was difficult to you in a meaningful way, so don’t worry about how the interaction ended, and instead think about what it meant, and how you handled it. Additionally, remember that this is essentially telling a story. A good way to do this is using the DIGS method, Dramatize the situation, Indicate the alternatives, Go through what you did, Summarize your impact.
* Of course, describing the situation comes first, but make sure that you describe it in a way that makes the listeners realize the weight of the situation.
* Once you’ve established the conflict, weighing the options and deciding which one is the best is where the true plot begins.
* After this, describe what you did. When explaining what you did, remember, your viewers may not see your motivations, so be sure to explain those.
* The aftermath is essentially a conclusion, and should tie together the story and give your listeners an idea of how well (or poorly) your experience turned out.









Risk and Failure
Give me an example of when you took a risk and failed.
Things to Consider:
* Make sure risk and payoff are both significant/noticeable
* When picking an example of risk, did you choose a significant one? Remember, you’re not talking about a funny mistake or a mistake with some friends, you want to talk about a change that you believed in and thought was worth losing something for. So did you explain why this event was a risk? What were the potential benefits you saw in it, and what were the potential consequences? Additionally, was this a legitimate risk? One common problem is that interviewees do not consider the outside perspective thoroughly; a big risk may seem interesting to talk about, but was it a ‘smart’ risk, or something that an interview could see would fail from the start? Is this risk something that other people will find significant, or something they might think you’re making a big deal out of? Was the goal that you were aiming for worth the risk, or would it look like you were taking a high risk choice for little reward? These are all important considerations when both choosing and talking about your experience. You’re being asked about failure, so it’s best to find an example that you can use to emphasize your intentions, priorities, and decision-making skills, and how you can take risks in a way that will benefit an organization.








Overcoming an Obstacle
Tell me a time when you overcame an obstacle and delivered results.
Things to Consider
First off, did you pick an obstacle that was a clear problem? A common mistake is telling about an obstacle that may not seem like a legitimate issue at first glance, which detracts from your story as a whole. If you’ve picked a good obstacle, are you sure that there were noticeable, tangible results? This question is designed to look at the problems you can face and the results that you can deliver, so you need to go beyond showing that you’ve faced adversity and overcome it. Without providing the clear benefits of your actions, you don’t demonstrate your ability to make the best out of a poor situation, or your judgement in producing benefits, both of which are very important during an interview. If you feel you’ve properly picked both an obstacle and a result, next ask yourself whether you described the ‘story’ properly. This is a tale where you find a problem, and overcome it in order to reach a happy ending, so make sure that you properly described the problem, the significance of the problem, your mindset and thought process while approaching it, and how these thoughts led to the happy ending, and how significant those positive results were.












Learning Outside of Work
How do you find the time to stay inspired, acquire new knowledge and find innovation for
your work?
One of the first things to consider when approaching this question is that how you respond gives your interviewers a sense of your work ethic and whether or not you’re legitimately passionate about what you do. When answering this question, you should have talked about what motivates you to keep moving with your work, which should be something meaningful to you. An interviewer is not interested in hearing a trivial, generic reason, but instead wants to hear inspiring ideas from you that are able to give them a sense of motivation as well. Your response should talk about what was/is uniquely inspiring to you that keeps pushing you forward. As a result, a shorter response is frowned upon, as it is expected that you can discuss this inspiration for at least 30 seconds, as it is a driving factor in your work. Examine yourself to find what drives you and your work, and craft a response that can convey the importance of it, and the drive it gives you, to your interviewer.











Earning the Trust of a Group
Tell me a time when you earned the trust of a group.
The core of this question is designed to show your interviewer several things. Of course the overall idea is how well you can integrate yourself into a group, but how did you do so? Did you rush in and try to get things done your way? Did you stay back and let the group take care of things? Ideally, your experience should describe you evaluating the needs and preferences of the group, and acting accordingly to fill in a needed role in the group. Additionally, the role that you fill in the group should be one that has value, and contributes to the overall good and productivity of the group. Ensure that you are conveying an idea of trust and benefit when describing your integration into the group, and make sure to include the aftermath as well, meaning the path you took to continue to bond with your group. However, be careful, because some types of stories do not work well in this situation. Do not use experiences that begin by losing the trust of a group, and then earning it back later. While earning their trust back may have been a good experience, an interviewer will always look poorly on the fact that you lost their trust to begin with, so it is safest to keep to an experience that involves integrating yourself into a new group.










Learning New Skills
Tell me about a time when you developed a new skill.
This question is, at its core, a way for the interviewer to evaluate your work ethic, and where your values are in terms of skills. You’re being asked to provide a skill that you find important and meaningful, and to explain how you found the time and willpower to learn that new skill and apply it in some way. It’s imperative to pick a skill that has some depth to it in a work environment; don’t just pick some arbitrary skill that an interviewer will see as frivolous. If you’ve done so, then did you explain the background behind the skill, and why it’s important to you? If an interviewer can understand what motivates you to pick up and pursue new skills, then that can provide them insight into how you might approach similar skills in their particular work environment. This covers the inspiration behind learning the new skill, but explaining how you went about taking on this new proficiency is just as important, giving the interviewer a way to evaluate your work ethic as well, and see how well you can commit yourself to something you’re interested in.











Working Alongside Differences
Tell me about a time when you had to work closely with someone whose personality was very different from yours.
When picking an experience for this question, there are a few set conditions you should make sure it fulfills. Is this an experience where someone was legitimately different from you, which resulted in some kind of tension or conflict? Was it something where you were able to recognize the issues and take initiative in resolving the issues in some way? Was the issue resolved in a way that resulted in a positive working relationship, conducive to productivity? These are all important details that allow you to construct a story based around a legitimate issue, and how YOU were able to resolve it. This tells the interviewer that you are able to recognize cues in a person, see when someone has an issue with you, and can take initiative in resolving any tension between the two of you in a way that allows both of you to work together effectively. These are all important interpersonal communication skills, and tell the interviewer that no matter who you are, or who you work with, you have the ability to work through differences effectively.










Learning in a New Environment
Tell me about the first job you’ve ever had. What did you do to learn the ropes?
The first thing to remember is that this question is based around problems arising. You’re being asked about when you were thrown into a new environment and how you managed to learn how to adapt to the requirements and problems that came up along the way, so don’t worry if your first job was a bumpy road. However, it’s important to keep in mind that from an interviewer standpoint, this question gives them insight into how you function in a new environment, and how you are able to learn to become an effective, functioning member of that environment. Things may have been difficult, but did you explain how you were able to overcome these issues and learn from them? The most important part is the process and the growth, which gives interviewers a way to analyze how you’ll be able to transition into their environment, and how you can deal with issues to grow into a new position.
